require zipped data if possible (#63)
galaxy-iuc/standards: docs/best_practices/tool_xml.rst

When tools contain output filters, tests should be included that verify
this filtering occurs. See `planemo docs <https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/writing_how_do_i.html#test-output-filters-work>`__ for more information.

Data parameters
---------------

If a (gz)ipped data type is available (e.g. ``fasta.gz`` or ``fastq.gz``) then

> data parameters should accept both the zipped and the unzipper data type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data parameters should accept both the zipped and the unzipped data type.
```

> If a (g)zipped data type is available (e.g. ``fasta.gz`` or ``fastq.gz``) then
> data parameters should accept both the zipped and the unzipped data type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a compressed version of a datatype (e.g. ``fasta.gz`` or ``fastqsanger.bz2``)
is supported by Galaxy, then data parameters should accept both the compressed
and the uncompressed datatypes. The tool should internally decompress the
dataset if the underlying tool cannot handle the compressed formats natively.
```

Author: > supported by the underlying tool

this is to weak in my opinion. I would prefer to let the Galaxy tool unzip the data if the underlying tool does not support zipped files natively. Advantage is that this save a lot of space in user histories.

Reviewer 3: Yes, but that's a galaxy change not a tool change

Author: I have something like this in mind: 

- https://github.com/galaxyproject/tools-iuc/pull/3542/files
- https://github.com/galaxyproject/tools-iuc/pull/3549/files
- https://github.com/galaxyproject/tools-iuc/pull/3548/files

Reviewer 3: Sorry, I miss read that as preferring the Galaxy framework do this (which is/was my own view).

The examples make it clear you are advocating extending the tool wrapper to do decompression when the tool itself doesn't.

Reviewer 2: > this is to weak in my opinion. I would prefer to let the Galaxy tool unzip the data if the underlying tool does not support zipped files natively. Advantage is that this save a lot of space in user histories.

I've updated my suggestion above accordingly.

---------------

> If a (gz)ipped data type is available (e.g. ``fasta.gz`` or ``fastq.gz``) then

Reviewer 3: Since you are editing this paragraph, should that be ``(g)zipped`` rather than ``(gz)ipped``?
